ALL things therefore whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, even so do ye also unto them: for this is the law and the prophets." The aim of this essay is to inquire what is the good that is sought by the Golden Rule. Every rule or command implies that there is some good to be preserved or attained. "Thou shalt do no murder," carries an implication as to the value of human life. "Thou shalt not steal," implies that, under certain conditions as to acquisition and distribution, property is a good. And if particular injunctions bear this implication of good to be acquired or maintained, we may look to find it no less certainly, if not so apparently, in the wider principles of conduct. Many of these principles, however, although very inclusive, are so abstract that we have to modify them past recognition in order to bring them into touch with the actual choices of life, where alone their practical aim becomes visible and the good sought by them may be divined. For instance, Kant's principle, "Act only on that maxim which thou canst at the same time will to become a universal law," gives us no inkling as to what the result of obedience to it would be in an individual or a world of individuals, because there are few, if any, concrete situations to which it can be applied, without modification, in any but a negative sense: we do not know at which point of the compass our Celestial City lies. But the Golden Rule starts from the present contents of the individual's mind, and has a direct application to every moral choice.

The last statement has, however, been challenged; it is said that there are spheres of conduct to which the Rule cannot be applied at all and that there are cases in which its application would produce bad results. And since the interest of our investigation is proportionate to our confidence in the universality of the Rule, it will be as well to consider these objections.

Kant says: "It cannot be a universal law, for it does not contain the principle of duties to oneself, nor of the duties of benevolence to others (for many a one would gladly consent that others should not benefit him, provided only that he might be excused from showing benevolence to them), nor finally that of duties of strict obligation to one another, for on this principle the criminal might argue against the judge who punishes him, and so on." The first point is the only one that needs serious consideration. Its apparent cogency lies in an abstraction that may be made in thought but not in reality. It is impossible to effect a more than mental separation between our duties to ourselves and our duties to others. The habits of body and unspoken thoughts with which our fellows have no apparent concern are potent in forming the character which at other moments will shape those actions that do concern them and in giving quality to the influence that is always going from us. There is thus no choice made by a human being that does not directly or indirectly affect his fellows, and the indirect effects are often the more important. The artificiality of the distinction is apparent in the instance that Kant produces as an occasion for the consideration of duty to oneself, i. e., that of a man contemplating suicide. Is it possible to imagine a case of this nature in which duty to others is not implicated? Let us, for argument's sake, endeavor to do so. We will suppose the case of a man so absolutely bare of ties, and responsibilities that his death will make a difference to no one. This aloofness compels us to look into the man himself for the cause of that continued and hopeless misery to which he seeks an end, and to imagine him in the contemplation of suicide postulating that he neither is nor intends nor hopes to be of any good to any one. And now we find that we have a being to whom, or an aspect of a being to which, all moral considerations are inept. What application would such a being find for Kant's own maxim, "So act as to treat humanity, whether in thine own person or in that of any other, in every case as an end withal, never as a means only"? The very phrase "humanity, whether in thine own person or in that of any other," implies a link that makes the distinction between duty to oneself and duty to another merely formal. Every duty that a man owes to himself is owed to himself as a social being; to abstract from his social nature is to abstract from his moral nature, and the attempt to apply moral considerations to such an abstraction must end in absurdity. Duty to oneself and duty to others are the subjective and objective aspects of the same thing, and although the Golden Rule is couched in the terms of the latter, this does not make it less universally applicable.

Kant's second objection is misdirected. If the Rule really allowed a man to "consent that others should not benefit him, provided only that he might be excused from showing benevolence to them, " it would certainly deserve the imputation he makes. But this is putting the cart before the horse. The Rule does not bid us consider first what we like or dislike doing to others and then make that the standard of what we expect from them; on the contrary, it bids us first consider what we would have men do to us and then to act so towards them, which is a very different matter.

With regard to Kant's third point, one wishes he had been more explicit in showing how the Rule lacks the principle of strict obligation to others, for to the ordinary man it would seem that just here its application is most obvious. A more apt instance for its working could not be found than Kant's example of a case for the duty of strict obligation to others, i. e., that of a man "who is thinking of making a lying promise." It is the same with other duties of this nature, as "Thou shalt do no murder; thou shalt not steal," etc. We are, therefore, tempted to think that here, as above, Kant reads into the Rule something that it does not contain, and the instance he adduces in support of his objection goes to confirm this supposition. "On this principle," he says, "a criminal might argue against the judge who punishes him." Now it is obvious that a correct application of the principle, instead of inducing the judge to refrain from punishing, would rather serve to emphasize the dignity and severity of the law. If the criminal pleaded, "Do not sentence me because in my case you would wish to escape," the judge would reply, " I should be unworthy of my position as administrator of the law unless I were willing to undergo its penalties should I incur them. "

Having now dealt with the instances of alleged deficiency of scope in the Golden Rule, we will turn to the statement that certain applications of it produce bad results. A common objection is that expressed by Dr. E. Caird. He allows the precept, a certain practical value, but "not because in its literal sense it clearly marks out the path of duty, for our wishes for another might be as unreasonable as our wishes for ourselves." But the precept says nothing whatever about our wishes for another: it bases itself upon our wishes for ourselves and bids us make them the guides of our acts for others. And as for the possible unreasonableness of the wish from which the action is to start, it is hard to see how this affects the matter except as an unnecessary advertisement of the undisputed fallibility of the agent. The unreasonableness that might make the application of the Golden Rule disastrous would pervert any principle and upset the working of any rule. But the Rule in question has this advantage that it always reacts, as will appear hereafter, upon the wish from which it starts in a sense that makes for reasonableness.

In this connection we may deal with Dr. Sidgwick's stricture to the effect that it is not true "to say that we ought to do to others only what we think it right for them to do to us; for no one will deny that there may be differences in the circumstances of two individuals, A. and B., which would make it wrong for A. to treat B. in the way in which it is right for B. to treat A." One might go further and say that in no case are the circumstances of two individuals so entirely similar that the right actions of each towards the other are also entirely similar. But the attempt to apply the Rule on this lowest basis of literalism would not only be frequently unhappy in result, if that were all, the charge against it would be valid, but it would break the Rule on the plane of more general thinking which is its natural level. Browne may like his name spelled with an "e," but he must generalize this desire into the wish for a correct spelling of his name before he can apply the Rule. Thus it must be recognized that any anomaly arising in the sense suggested by Dr. Sidgwick is due not to any defect in the Rule, but to lack of completeness in its application; for surely I always wish that others should treat me with a due regard to the difference between my circumstances and theirs, and therefore according to the Rule I should always exercise a like discrimination in its application.

A more serious objection is urged by the writer last quoted. "This formula, " he says, "is obviously unprecise in statement; for one might wish for another's cooperation in sin and be willing to reciprocate it. " And apart from actual conspiracy a very common form of this evil is seen in the wrong-doer's connivance at others' wrong-doing. This is found amongst all sorts of minor social groups from schoolboys, with their abhorrence of 'sneaking,' to the public official who pockets his perquisite in silence as to the profits of others, assured that although he may not find virtue its own reward, at least a certain selected modicum of the long-suffering grace of charity is not without gain. In this way the application of the Rule seems to make for the concealment and multiplication of wrong-doing. But we must bear in mind that the observance of the precept in these cases is intended to cover and so promote its infringement in more important aspects. The schoolboys observe it as between boy and boy that they may the more successfully break it as between themselves and the master: the public officials observe it among themselves to cover and promote its infringement as between themselves and the public. It becomes obvious therefore that the objection made to the Rule in these cases has really no better foundation than would be beneath an objection to honor because honor amongst thieves promotes theft. It is only an instance of the manner in which wrong always adopts the ways of right in the lesser that it may compass its own ends in the greater. Of course, it is possible that in some of these cases, as in the schoolboys' code of morals, the Rule, despite its perversion to wrong ends, may come to have a certain moral value in itself.

Possibly there are other and stronger objections to the universality of the Rule, but, until they appear, its ability to vindicate itself in the cases already considered gives us warrant to proceed with our examination on the assumption that we have here a principle which is all-inclusive and which may therefore be taken to have implicit in it, not some subsidiary good, but the good itself. And since the principle is easily applied to concrete experience, its implications should be capable of extraction without much difficulty. It starts from desire actually existing in me, "whatsoever ye would," but it does not contemplate the satisfaction of that desire. My action is to be aimed at the concerns of another, but not at the satisfaction of his desire: it is not a doctrine of complaisance, it does not say, "Do unto others as ye imagine they would have you do." The guide of my action is not to be my supposition of what my fellow's desire may be, but my own desire transferred in imagination to him, "Whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, even so do ye also unto them." The result is that the desire at the satisfaction of which my action aims is neither my desire nor his, as it existed prior to the application of the Rule, but my desire as seen through, and modified by, something that unites us, directing my action towards him and projecting my desires into him. Without the modification so effected the Rule would be meaningless, for if the satisfaction of any given desire is good, why not as good in me as in another? Unless, therefore, the Golden Rule, when we are willing to act on it, modifies our own desires and therefore the standard by which we act, it affords no guidance. And since its guidance lies in this modification, it is here that the good sought by the Rule will be manifest.